Welcome, brothers and sisters. It's a pleasure to be with you.
In this update, we're going to share a few brief reports. Then we'll watch a very encouraging
video interview. I'm sure you'll find it to face strengthening.
First here are the updates. In late April, brother Mark Sanderson traveled to Poland. A special
meeting was held at the assembly hall in Warsaw to encourage the brothers and sisters
affected by the ongoing war in Ukraine. Over 250,000 from Poland, Ukraine and the Donbass
region tied in for the program. One circuit overseer in the Donbass region wrote,
it was a wonderful program and food at the proper time. It brings tears of joy to see
how Jehovah loves us. After the program, brother Sanderson and three branch committee members
traveled 2,500 kilometers or 1,550 miles throughout Poland to visit refugees and hardworking
volunteers at assembly halls, kingdom halls and border crossings. Truly, this visit was
a warm expression of Jehovah's love for his people. We sincerely thank all of you for
your prayers and generous donations that make the relief work possible. On May 4, 71 year
old sister Valentina Barbara Noscaya was finally released from prison. She was in prison
for well over a year. What a warm reception she received. We rejoice with you sister Valentina,
but we've not forgotten that your son Roman is still in prison for his faith. We keep you
both in our prayers. On May 24, brother Dennis Christensen was released from prison in Russia.
He spent five years in various detention facilities. After his release, he was immediately
deported. He and his wife Irina are now safe in Denmark as we can see in the following video.
Today is a happy day. A happy day because I at least got free from the prison and I came home
to Copenhagen in Denmark where I can again be together with my friends and my beloved family.
I'm also looking forward to that I can live a more normal family life with my beloved wife Irina.
I'm very glad and I appreciate all that that all the brothers and sisters has done for me in
these five years. All these thoughts, all these letters, all these prayers, all the drawings and
other gifts that I got from the children has encouraged me a lot. And through all these,
I have always felt that I was not alone. That Jehovah's Hand was never too short,
too safe, too support and to help. Many people ask me, oh Dennis, at the prison time crossed
you, did they break you? No way, never ever. And you know what, I am more determined than ever to
be faithful to Jehovah, more determined to preach the good news, to help other brothers and sisters
and other people to gain our goals. The goal is to turn a life in paradise where we all have the
opportunity to serve and preach Jehovah forever. So no, I'm not broken, no, I'm not crossed,
I'm still here, I'm back. We rejoice with you Dennis and Irina, your faith and integrity have
strengthened all of us. We're overjoyed to have you back. Although we're happy about these
developments, we keep in mind that around the world, over 150 of our brothers and sisters
are in prison for their faith. In Russia, four brothers are serving eight-year prison sentences,
and one sister is serving a six-year sentence. He was 13-3, he says,
keep in mind those in prison as though you were imprisoned with them.
How can we keep our prison brothers and sisters in mind? If we live close by, there may be
practical things we can do to assist, but all of us can pray for them and their family members
every day. We also can meditate on their fine example. When we see these brothers and sisters
endure unjust imprisonment and do so with joy, we're encouraged to imitate their faith. We're
motivated to endure our own current trials, and we're sure that we can endure future trials
with joy. In the following video interview, two brothers from Russia share how they faithfully
and joyfully endured a four-year prison sentence. My criminal prosecution began on July 22,
2018. It was a Sunday, a meeting wasn't progress. After the search had finished,
they told me that I had to go with them. I opened the door because FSB officers were
persistently raining the doorbell. Then after a few seconds came the sound of smashing glass.
They'd smash the balcony, then broken down the door in the balcony,
and when my wife had tried to tell them the door was already open so that they wouldn't smash
anything, pieces of glass cut her forehead and a vein was the cut of vein in her hand.
And then the officers approached me and showed me the search warrant, and I said to them,
I'm not interested in the warrant. Call an ambulance. We wanted to send my wife to the hospital,
but she decided to stay with me. The search continued for five hours, so they locked me up.
Two days later there was a court hearing it which they ruled that placed me under arrest
and sent me to pretrial detention center. The most difficult part of all the persecution
was being in the pressure cell. When I entered or rather when the workers and guards of the detention
center pushed me in there, the first thing I heard was the word get down on your knees,
but I told them that the only person I went down on my knees for was God. Then they started shouting,
ridiculing me, though I didn't understand what they were asking of me or what they wanted.
I only found out after several hours when they told me directly that I had to give them
information about two brothers who had been detained in a neighboring town. They laid out instruments
of torture in front of me and said that I wouldn't be able to stand it or hold out.
So I'd better agree to recuperate with them. I didn't give any evidence against those brothers
because I knew it would make their situation worse. I faced my own hardships when I was put into
pretrial detention. Every day from morning to night they have the radio on, the radio is very
loud in the cells, people are talking, and after several months in the detention center they put
me into a solitary confinement cell. I was worried about who I would preach to if I had to spend the whole
period there. That evening I prayed very hard. A few days later a man was placed in the cell
next to mine. He had been in prison for 13 years. In the last year he had begun to think deeply
about spiritual subjects and even started to read the Bible. We often talk to him about spiritual
matters every day, several hours. I sang kingdom songs to him and read scriptures that the
brothers and sisters had sent me in letters. One of those who were in the pressure cell
collaborated with the administration and physically he was very strong. Like a mountain of muscle
the thought came to me that what was in front of me was actually 80% water.
I don't know, but maybe at that moment I even smiled. But that thought which undoubtedly
Jehovah gave me at that moment changed my view of those people.
There was a cell next to mine that was also a solitary confinement cell and it was often empty.
Almost every day I prayed to Jehovah that my friend and brother Vadim would be
transferred to that cell. When Vadim found out that I was making requests like that to Jehovah
he said, this is okay, you're too naive. You and I in prison terms are partners in crime.
So by law we wouldn't be allowed to be in adjacent cells. I said, let's just wait and see.
I think the evening someone came into my cell and said,
lethuk, you're being transferred and they took me out to a different block, took me into a cell
and I heard Sergei's voice in the next cell through the wall saying, Vadim is that you? I said,
yes it's me and he said, oh that's wonderful I begged Jehovah for you and when I heard that he
backed for me to be moved to the next cell I was quite angry because my return visits had been messed
up. We had agreed that I would tell them a Bible story but then I realized why Jehovah had
arranged things in that way because we both needed emotional support from each other and we were
together for two weeks. We read and discussed the text for each day and we shared thoughts from
letters. There was a situation when I was depressed for several days when I was in the solitary confinement
then I received a new package of letters. I usually sorted them into those I would read first
and those I would read later. There was one letter that I didn't want to read at all
so I put it in a separate pile for the future but then something inside said to me, no you need
to read that letter and that letter was the answer to my prayer. The main theme of this letter
is how Satan uses one of his most effective weapons discouragement. I started applying the
council on that subject straight away and that helped me to come out of that state of mind
and get rid of negative thoughts. Everywhere I was having good discussions with those in the
neighboring cells. We were able to talk through the walls and I kept asking myself why I was constantly
being moved around. Couldn't I just be left in one cell and at that moment I received a letter
in which a sister wrote the phrase. If you move from one cell to another,
view it as being assigned with a new territory as you have completed the previous one.
I had such a reaction to that I said that's the answer. In their letters brothers and sisters
from all over the world sent various illustrations, pictures, photographs. Someone sent this portrait
for example it's my wife Natasha and I sitting in Jehovah's hands. All the spiritual food we got
was in the letters to the extent that even the entire three-day convention was written out
and sent to us in letters. And when I was reading the letters it was as though I wasn't there in the
detention center or the prison colony. I was with my friends as in being with them as guests
when I was reading their letters so it was as though for half of the three and a half year sentence
I wasn't really there in the detention center or the prison colony. Each day throughout the entire
time of my imprisonment each morning I would ask Jehovah for godly peace or a sense of calm.
And in circumstances like that words just cannot express how much you feel that calmness.
It is totally opposite to the circumstances you're in the company that surrounds you
or even your state of health. But to have peace of heart that's a real sense of calm as well as
that I felt enormous support from the brothers and Jehovah's love during the court proceedings
because there were always a large number of brothers and sisters at the court hearings.
For the first few times when brothers and sisters came for the hearings on the measures of
restriction the FSB would write down their names and then hand them orders to appear for interrogation.
Then we would arrive for the next hearing and see the same brothers and sisters there
and that really strengthened us. We saw that they were not afraid and that they sincerely
wanted to support us and that was how it was right to the end. In one letter I received the outline
for the memorial and I was very eager to give the talk just a few days later while exercising in the
prison yard. I started speaking with an inmate who was interested in the Bible. On the day before
the memorial we were talking again and I said to him, did you know that tomorrow a celebration
will be taking place all over the world? I explained to him what the celebration was,
how it was going to be held and that there will be a talk given and he said to me,
sir gay, do you have this talk? I said, yeah, I do. And so we agreed that the next day
on the day of the memorial I would give the talk. And so the day came. It was already 10 o'clock
in the evening and the man was still busy with something. I prayed to Jehovah, what shall I do?
And then at 10.30 he shouts to me, sir gay, you can begin. We're all listening to you carefully
and that was how I began my presentation. Literally a few minutes pass and I hear footsteps
in the corridor. The inspector comes to my door and looks through the spy hole on the cell door.
I ask him, did something happen? He says, nothing, nothing. Continue reading, read.
I said, oh Jehovah, thank you so much and so I continued with the talk.
I knew that we would probably be separated and that we could be assigned to separate sections
so we wouldn't have the opportunity to support each other and conduct meetings which was really
important to me. He explained his position that he needed to look after me as I was disabled
and the administration made the concession. That was such a support, spiritually, emotionally and physically.
We conducted congregation meetings together. Each week, at the same time, we held the congregation meetings.
We had a certain program, but we used the available material that came to us in a huge way.
Sometimes others would join us to listen to the talk.
I said, don't worry, we will meet each other at the same time.
Vadim and I always prayed in full view of everyone. That was in the dining hall before meetings,
after meetings and before going to bed. It was a witness to the others and people took note of it.
And because of that, we were respected for being people of faith.
I always knew that I had to make special use of this time and I prayed. The whole time I said a
particular prayer to Jehovah. I said to him, Jehovah, you are the potter. I am the clay, so please mold me.
So in the situations that I found myself in throughout those three and a half years, both the good
and the bad ones were always an opportunity to be molded. In going through all of those trials,
I saw and felt that my relationship with Jehovah was getting stronger, stronger and more trusting.
That was because, in those circumstances, there was a lot of time for prayer.
And I saw very often how Jehovah answers specific prayers that really drew me closer to Jehovah.
Throughout the whole period of persecution, I was strengthened by the words of Jeremiah 4810.
First is the one who carries out the mission of Jehovah neglectfully. When I found myself in such
hard and difficult circumstances, I understood that I had the responsibility to give a witness to
Jehovah's name by my conduct and deeds. Another thing that always strengthened me throughout the whole
time was the scripture at Isaiah 57, verse 15, and the thought that Jehovah lives with those who are
crushed and who are in a bad place emotionally. At such times, I was able to imagine Jehovah sitting
right next to me and stroking my shoulder and reassuring me that everything will be fine. I am with
you. I have seen that all the trials that had been allowed, despite their difficulty, Jehovah has
turned them all into blessings. What a touching interview. Did you notice what helped our
brothers to joyfully endure their unjust imprisonment? They mentioned how vital it was to keep a good
routine of Bible reading, prayer, and meetings, even though they were in prison. They witnessed
others at every opportunity, and they saw Jehovah's love and care in very personal ways.
We can do the same things to strengthen our faith and maintain our joy. Speaking of joy,
what a blessing it has been for us to return to in-person meetings. It takes some effort
to attend, but seeing our brothers and sisters hearing their laughter, joining with them in song
and prayer makes the effort so worthwhile. It's another gift from Jehovah to help us joyfully
endure. So whatever trials you're dealing with, don't lose your joy in serving Jehovah.
As Nehemiah 10 says, do not feel sad for the joy of Jehovah is your stronghold.
Brothers and sisters, we appreciate you and the joy that you maintain despite the many challenges
we face. It makes us love you all the more. From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is J.W. Broadcasting.